Add Recipe for using custom OIDC Idp (#11538)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/03-tutorials/03-set-up-idp.md

---
title: Set up a custom identity provider

> type: Tutorials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

`type` metadata is not used any longer, right?

> **NOTE:** Kubernetes supports OpenID Connect (OIDC) JWT Access tokens, so make sure your identity provider is OIDC-compliant.

## Prerequisites

1. Kubeconfig file to your Kyma cluster
2. OIDC-compliant identity provider

## Steps

### Configure your identity provider

> **NOTE:** If you don't have access to the identity provider, you can sign up for a free tier plan at [Auth0](https://auth0.com/).

Configure a dedicated client (often referred to as an application) at your identity provider.

1. Note down these details of your application at your identity provider:

- `issuerUrl`
- `clientId` 
- `clientSecret` 

2. Add `http://localhost:8000` to allowed redirect URIs that are required for the OIDC login plugin.
3. Configure the name of the `username` and `group` claims.
4. Enable the Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) authentication flow.

### Configure your identity provider as the OIDC server

In general, you have to add flags to the API server as described in the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#configuring-the-api-server). You will do it in different ways depending on your Kubernetes distribution.

> For example, if you want to use  k3d, you need to pass additional `--k3s-server-arg` flags containing the OIDC server configuration when creating the cluster. See the [specification](https://k3d.io/usage/commands/k3d_cluster_create/) of the `k3d cluster create` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to use k3d, you need to pass additional `--k3s-server-arg` flags containing the OIDC server configuration when creating the cluster. See the [specification](https://k3d.io/usage/commands/k3d_cluster_create/) of the `k3d cluster create` command:
```

k3d cluster create kyma \
--k3s-server-arg "--kube-apiserver-arg=oidc-issuer-url=<your-ipd-issuer-url>" \
--k3s-server-arg "--kube-apiserver-arg=oidc-username-claim=<username-claim-at-your-ipd>" \
--k3s-server-arg "--kube-apiserver-arg=oidc-client-id=<your-ipd-client-id>" \
--k3s-server-arg "--kube-apiserver-arg=oidc-groups-claim=<group-claim-at-your-ipd>" \
```

If you use managed kubernetes you will do it different depending on your provider.
For example, if you use gardener as a managed kubernetes offering you will probably wnt to look at the [OIDCPreset](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/usage/openidconnect-presets.md) resources that help you with the task.

> 

Author: done

### Configure Role Based Access to identies provided by your OIDC server

> Now, whenever api server is called with a JWT token, the api server will be able to validate and extract the associated identity ( from the `username` and `group` claims of the JWT token).

Author: Not really JWT token calling api server. I will rephrase.

> Now, whenever api server is called with a JWT token, the api server will be able to validate and extract the associated identity ( from the `username` and `group` claims of the JWT token).

Author: done

By default, Kyma comes with the following ClusterRoles:

- **kyma-admin**: gives full admin access to the entire cluster
- **kyma-namespace-admin**: gives full admin access except for the write access to [AddonsConfigurations](/components/helm-broker#custom-resource-addons-configuration)
- **kyma-edit**: gives full access to all Kyma-managed resources
- **kyma-developer**: gives full access to Kyma-managed resources and basic Kubernetes resources
- **kyma-view**: allows viewing and listing all of the resources of the cluster
- **kyma-essentials**: gives a set of minimal view access right to use the Kyma Console

To bind a user to the **kyma-admin** ClusterRole, run this command:

```
kubectl create clusterrolebinding {BINDING_NAME} --clusterrole=kyma-admin --user={USERNAME AS IDENTIFIED AT YOUR IDP}
```

To check if the binding is created, run:

```
kubectl get clusterrolebinding {BINDING_NAME}
```

To bind a group of users to the **kyma-admin** ClusterRole, run this command:

```
kubectl create clusterrolebinding {BINDING_NAME} --clusterrole=kyma-admin --group={GROUPNAME}
```

> You can combine user and group level permission in one binding. Run `kubectl create clusterrolebinding --help` in your terminal for more options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can combine user and group level permissions in one binding. Run `kubectl create clusterrolebinding --help` in your terminal for more options.
```

### Configure kubectl access

> With this step you will set up the OIDC provider in  kubeconfig file to enforce authentication flow when accessing kyma via `kubectl`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this step, you will set up the OIDC provider in the kubeconfig file to enforce authentication flow when accessing Kyma using `kubectl`.
```

Reviewer 2: Rather "using" than "via -> https://kyma-project.io/community/guidelines/content/#style-and-terminology-style-and-terminology-terminology

> 1. Install [kubelogin](https://github.com/int128/kubelogin) plugin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install the [kubelogin](https://github.com/int128/kubelogin) plugin.
```

> 2. Copy your current kubeconfig file into a new file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Copy your current kubeconfig file into a new file.
```

> 3. In the new kubeconfig file define a new `oidc` user and setup OIDC provider, as follows: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. In the new kubeconfig file, define a new OIDC user and set up the OIDC provider. 
```

    ```yaml
    users:
    - name: oidc
    user:
        exec:
        apiVersion: client.authentication.k8s.io/v1beta1
        command: kubectl
        args:
        - oidc-login
        - get-token
        - --oidc-issuer-url=ISSUER_URL
        - --oidc-client-id=YOUR_CLIENT_ID

>         #- --oidc-client-secret=YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET this is not required if your OICS server supports PKCE authentication flow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        #- --oidc-client-secret=YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET this is not required if your OICS server supports the PKCE authentication flow
```

    ```

> 4. To enforce oidc login set the `oidc` user as a default user in the context

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. To enforce the OIDC login, set the OIDC user as a default user in the context.
```

    ```yaml
    context:

>         cluster: {your cluster name}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        cluster: {YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME}
```

        user: oidc
    ```

> 5. Now you can share the modified kubeconfig file to members of your team / organisation. When they will use it, your identity provider will do the authentication for you and the kubernetes api server will make sure they will have access to resources according to the role bound to them as individuals or group members.     

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Now you can share the modified kubeconfig file with the members of your team or organization. When they use it, your identity provider will handle the authentication. The Kubernetes API server will make sure they will have access to resources according to the role bound to them as individuals or group members.     
```
